The program was developed in Windows 8.1, with Visual Studio 2010 and DirectX SDK (June 2010). It requires a GPU for visual rendering.

How to use:

0 Double click Cutting.exe (change Cutting_exe to Cutting.exe), then should see as screenshot_setup.png
* If the application is failed because of its side-by-side configuration, please install the visual studio Redistributable Package, version 2010 and 2008.
http://www.chiefarchitect.com/support/article/KB-01046/message-the-application-has-failed-to-start-because-its-side-by-side-configuration-is-incorrect.html

1 Check the button ‘Run Simulation?in the main control panel to start the simulation.
* The deformation runs at above 120 fps on a desktop equipped with Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-1650.

2 To perform a cut, press ‘Alt?+ ‘C? click the right mouse button, hold it, and move it to draw a line intersecting the soft body. A cut is shown in screenshot_cut.png

*In this version, the cutting is performed between the line (drawn by moving the mouse) and the soft object in its reference (aka undeformed) configuration. The cutting algorithm is triggered after releasing the right button. 
*This is different to the full version with haptic feedback, where the cutting is continuously triggered during the movement of the haptic handle (as shown in the video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uBED_JQ66lg).

3 To edit boundary forces, press ‘F? click and hold the right mouse button on a green dot on the soft body, move the mouse. Forces will be displayed as arrows, as shown in screenshot_boundarycondition.png 
(You may want to pause the simulation, in order to click on the green dot.)

4 To edit fixations, press ‘V? select a green dot by right clicking, or draw a rectangle, the green dots covered by this (invisible) rectangle are selected. Fixed dots are shown in red color.

5 The forces and fixations can be cleared from the control panel. 

6 Press ‘Esc?to exit the program.



The configuration file (LiverScene.txt) contains some parameters one could play with. But it is not recommended to change it before one understands the physical meaning of the specific parameter.

The simulation performance slightly decreases as more cuts are introduced.

Collision detection and response is disabled by default, but could be enabled from the main control panel. If many tiny pieces (e.g., more than 20) are created by multiple, crossing cuts, it may potentially lead to unstable collision response. However, in a reasonable surgery operation, it hardly creates so many tiny pieces.


In case of questions, please email Jun Wu (jun.wu@tum.de)