A demo of (almost) interactive topology optimization of high-resolution 3d models

Author: Dr. Jun Wu
mailto: j.wu-1@tudelft.nl



The program was developed in Windows 7, with Visual Studio 2013 and DirectX SDK (June 2010). It requires a Nvidia GPU for performing numerical simulation using CUDA.

How to use:

0 Double click TopOpt.exe. In the dialog "Load scene file", select for instance "_CompareScene_0.25m.txt". Then one should see as screenshot_setup.png
* If the application is failed because of its side-by-side configuration, please install the visual studio Redistributable Package, version 2013 (and possibly version 2010 and 2008).
http://www.chiefarchitect.com/support/article/KB-01046/message-the-application-has-failed-to-start-because-its-side-by-side-configuration-is-incorrect.html

1 Check the button ‘Run TopOpt' in the Main Controls panel to start the optimization.
* Please maintain the window is active. The computation is very intensive, and thus the window does not response fast to further clicks. To pause the optimization, uncheck the button 'Run TopOpt', and wait for a few seconds, until the program reponses to your click.

2 After a few iteration, pause the optimization by unchecking the button 'Run TopOpt'.

3 To view the model, click the left mouse button, hole and move to rotate the model. (see screenshot_opt.png)

4 To change boundry conditions.
- Click "Clear Forces" and "Clear Fixations" in the Main Controls panel to remove the current boundary conditions.
- Press key 'f' or 'v' to swtich the editing mode for forces (f) or fixation of vertices (v).
- To select new fixations, press 'v', right click on the scene, hold and draw an (invisible) quad on the sceen. The vertices which fall into this region will change their color from green to red, indicating the vertices are now fixed. (see screenshot_BCs.png)
- To edit forces, press 'f', right click on a green vertex, hold and move, force arrows will appear. Forces will also apply on neighbouring vertices.
- Click ResetT TopOpt in the Main Controls panel to activate the new boundry conditions.

Press 'Alt'+'S' to save the current fixations and forces

Press ‘Esc' to exit the program.

Press 'F5' to save the mesh as an .obj file

The default target is to reduce by 64%. It is possible to increase the reduction by F7, or decrease by F10.


For technical details, please refer to
A System for High-Resolution Topology Optimization
Jun Wu, Christian Dick, Rüdiger Westermann
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics

or send an email to j.wu-1@tudelft.nl
